{"passageID": 221138, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Introduction of robots into factories, while employment of human workers is being reduced, creates worry and fear. It is the responsibility of management to prevent or, at least, to ease these fears. For example, robots could be introduced only in new plants rather than replacing humans in existing assembly lines. Workers should be included in the planning for new factories or the introduction of robots into existing plants, so they can participate in the process. It may be that robots are needed to reduce manufacturing costs so that the company remains competitive, but planning for such cost reductions should be done jointly by labor and management. Retraining current employees for new positions within the company will also greatly reduce their fear of being laid off. Since robots are particularly good at highly repetitive simple motions, the replaced human workers should be moved to positions where judgment and decisions beyond the abilities of robots are required.\n\n==>Management should take responsibility to prevent or ease fears associated with the introduction of (A) into factories, which can be done through careful planning and retraining of employees to move them to positions that require more judgment and decisions.", "answer": 2, "e1": "(A)Humans (B) Neglect", "e2": "(A)robots (B) management", "e3": "(A)Machines (B) Direction", "e4": "(A)Humans (B) Negligence", "e5": "(A)Organic (B) Direction"}
{"passageID": 221139, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Cinema is valuable not for its ability to make visible the hidden outlines of our reality, but for its ability to reveal what reality itself veils ― the dimension of fantasy. This is why, to a person, the first great theorists of film decried the introduction of sound and other technical innovations (such as color) that pushed film in the direction of realism. Since cinema was an entirely fantasmatic art, these innovations were completely unnecessary. And what’s worse, they could do nothing but turn filmmakers and audiences away from the fantasmatic dimension of cinema, potentially transforming film into a mere delivery device for representations of reality. As long as the irrealism of the silent black and white film predominated, one could not take filmic fantasies for representations of reality. But sound and color threatened to create just such an illusion, thereby destroying the very essence of film art. As Rudolf Arnheim puts it, 'The creative power of the artist can only come into play where reality and the medium of representation do not coincide.'\n\n==>Cinema has the power to make fantastical elements visible and reveal what reality veils, and this power is detrimental to the creative force of the filmmaker and the potential of (A) art if sound and color are introduced, blurring the distinction between reality and representation.", "answer": 4, "e1": "(A)Concert hall (B) Motion picture", "e2": "(A)Concert hall (B) Stage", "e3": "(A)Theater (B) Stage", "e4": "(A)cinema (B) film", "e5": "(A)Movie theater (B) Television"}
{"passageID": 230634, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Development can get very complicated and fanciful. A fugue by Johann Sebastian Bach illustrates how far this process could go, when a single melodic line, sometimes just a handful of notes, was all that the composer needed to create a brilliant work containing lots of intricate development within a coherent structure. Ludwig van Beethoven’s famous Fifth Symphony provides an exceptional example of how much mileage a classical composer can get out of a few notes and a simple rhythmic tapping. The opening da-da-da-DUM that everyone has heard somewhere or another appears in an incredible variety of ways throughout not only the opening movement, but the remaining three movements, like a kind of motto or a connective thread. Just as we don’t always see the intricate brushwork that goes into the creation of a painting, we may not always notice how Beethoven keeps finding fresh uses for his motto or how he develops his material into a large, cohesive statement. But a lot of the enjoyment we get from that mighty symphony stems from the inventiveness behind it, the impressive development of musical ideas.\n\n==>From Bach's fugue to Beethoven's Fifth Symphony, classical (A) have been able to exemplify the impressive development of musical ideas from the simplest of melodic lines or motives.", "answer": 4, "e1": "(A)Detractors (B) Sonorous", "e2": "(A)Creators (B) Sonorous", "e3": "(A)Songwriters (B) Muteness", "e4": "(A)composers (B) beethoven", "e5": "(A)Creators (B) Silence"}
{"passageID": 221123, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Scientists use paradigms rather than believing them. The use of a paradigm in research typically addresses related problems by employing shared concepts, symbolic expressions, experimental and mathematical tools and procedures, and even some of the same theoretical statements. Scientists need only understand how to use these various elements in ways that others would accept. These elements of shared practice thus need not presuppose any comparable unity in scientists’ beliefs about what they are doing when they use them. Indeed, one role of a paradigm is to enable scientists to work successfully without having to provide a detailed account of what they are doing or what they believe about it. Thomas Kuhn noted that scientists “can agree in their identification of a paradigm without agreeing on, or even attempting to produce, a full interpretation or rationalization of it. Lack of a standard interpretation or of an agreed reduction to rules will not prevent a paradigm from guiding research.”\n\n==>Scientists use (A) without necessarily agreeing on a single interpretation or reduction to specific rules.", "answer": 3, "e1": "(A)Dissenters (B) Scholars", "e2": "(A)Models (B) Scholars", "e3": "(A)paradigms (B) scientists", "e4": "(A)Dissenters (B) Laymen", "e5": "(A)Dissenters (B) Amateur"}
{"passageID": 230640, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Mobilities in transit offer a broad field to be explored by different disciplines in all faculties, in addition to the humanities. In spite of increasing acceleration, for example in travelling through geographical or virtual space, our body becomes more and more a passive non-moving container, which is transported by artefacts or loaded up with inner feelings of being mobile in the so-called information society. Technical mobilities turn human beings into some kind of terminal creatures, who spend most of their time at rest and who need to participate in sports in order to balance their daily disproportion of motion and rest. Have we come closer to Aristotle’s image of God as the immobile mover, when elites exercise their power to move money, things and people, while they themselves do not need to move at all? Others, at the bottom of this power, are victims of mobility-structured social exclusion. They cannot decide how and where to move, but are just moved around or locked out or even locked in without either the right to move or the right to stay.\n\n==>Mobilities in (A) have created a power dynamic of those who are able to move and those who are confined to one space, with the wealthy and powerful able to control or prevent the movement of those below them while often not needing to move themselves.", "answer": 1, "e1": "(A)mobilities (B) transit", "e2": "(A)Displacements (B) Permanent", "e3": "(A)Immobilities (B) Permanent", "e4": "(A)Immobilities (B) Travel", "e5": "(A)Movements (B) Ory"}
{"passageID": 230920, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Becoming competent in another culture means looking beyond behavior to see if we can understand the attitudes, beliefs, and values that motivate what we observe. By looking only at the visible aspects of culture ― customs, clothing, food, and language ― we develop a short-sighted view of intercultural understanding ― just the tip of the iceberg, really. If we are to be successful in our business interactions with people who have different values and beliefs about how the world is ordered, then we must go below the surface of what it means to understand culture and attempt to see what Edward Hall calls the “hidden dimensions.” Those hidden aspects are the very foundation of culture and are the reason why culture is actually more than meets the eye. We tend not to notice those cultural norms until they violate what we consider to be common sense, good judgment, or the nature of things.\n\n==>To be successful in (A) interactions, we must look deeper than the visible aspects of (B) and attempt to understand the hidden dimensions of culture.", "answer": 1, "e1": "(A)intercultural (B) culture", "e2": "(A)Multicultural (B) Barbarism", "e3": "(A)Transcultural (B) Heritage", "e4": "(A)Multicultural (B) Heritage", "e5": "(A)Transcultural (B) Barbarism"}
{"passageID": 221138, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Introduction of robots into factories, while employment of human workers is being reduced, creates worry and fear. It is the responsibility of management to prevent or, at least, to ease these fears. For example, robots could be introduced only in new plants rather than replacing humans in existing assembly lines. Workers should be included in the planning for new factories or the introduction of robots into existing plants, so they can participate in the process. It may be that robots are needed to reduce manufacturing costs so that the company remains competitive, but planning for such cost reductions should be done jointly by labor and management. Retraining current employees for new positions within the company will also greatly reduce their fear of being laid off. Since robots are particularly good at highly repetitive simple motions, the replaced human workers should be moved to positions where judgment and decisions beyond the abilities of robots are required.\n\n==>Management should work to prevent or at least reduce worker fear of (A) being introduced in factories, by involving them in the process and retraining them for positions requiring judgment and decisions beyond the capability of robots.", "answer": 2, "e1": "(A)Humans (B) Disorder", "e2": "(A)robots (B) management", "e3": "(A)Machines (B) Oversight", "e4": "(A)Humans (B) Chaos", "e5": "(A)Organic (B) Oversight"}
{"passageID": 221139, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Cinema is valuable not for its ability to make visible the hidden outlines of our reality, but for its ability to reveal what reality itself veils ― the dimension of fantasy. This is why, to a person, the first great theorists of film decried the introduction of sound and other technical innovations (such as color) that pushed film in the direction of realism. Since cinema was an entirely fantasmatic art, these innovations were completely unnecessary. And what’s worse, they could do nothing but turn filmmakers and audiences away from the fantasmatic dimension of cinema, potentially transforming film into a mere delivery device for representations of reality. As long as the irrealism of the silent black and white film predominated, one could not take filmic fantasies for representations of reality. But sound and color threatened to create just such an illusion, thereby destroying the very essence of film art. As Rudolf Arnheim puts it, 'The creative power of the artist can only come into play where reality and the medium of representation do not coincide.'\n\n==>Cinema's unique ability to provide an alternate reality from that of everyday life is why film theorists critiqued the introduction of sound and other technical innovations which pushed film in the direction of (A), potentially transforming film into a mere representation of reality and destroying its fantasmatic essence.", "answer": 3, "e1": "(A)Idealism (B) Movie house", "e2": "(A)Fantasy (B) Movie house", "e3": "(A)realism (B) cinema", "e4": "(A)Fantasy (B) Theater", "e5": "(A)Idealism (B) Stage"}
{"passageID": 230634, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Development can get very complicated and fanciful. A fugue by Johann Sebastian Bach illustrates how far this process could go, when a single melodic line, sometimes just a handful of notes, was all that the composer needed to create a brilliant work containing lots of intricate development within a coherent structure. Ludwig van Beethoven’s famous Fifth Symphony provides an exceptional example of how much mileage a classical composer can get out of a few notes and a simple rhythmic tapping. The opening da-da-da-DUM that everyone has heard somewhere or another appears in an incredible variety of ways throughout not only the opening movement, but the remaining three movements, like a kind of motto or a connective thread. Just as we don’t always see the intricate brushwork that goes into the creation of a painting, we may not always notice how Beethoven keeps finding fresh uses for his motto or how he develops his material into a large, cohesive statement. But a lot of the enjoyment we get from that mighty symphony stems from the inventiveness behind it, the impressive development of musical ideas.\n\n==>Johann Sebastian Bach and Ludwig van Beethoven's works demonstrate the vast potential of a single (A) line, and how a few notes can be used to create works of great complexity and cohesiveness.", "answer": 4, "e1": "(A)Harmonious (B) Schubert", "e2": "(A)Harmonious (B) Maestro", "e3": "(A)Discordant (B) Schubert", "e4": "(A)melodic (B) beethoven", "e5": "(A)Harmonious (B) Silence"}
{"passageID": 221123, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Scientists use paradigms rather than believing them. The use of a paradigm in research typically addresses related problems by employing shared concepts, symbolic expressions, experimental and mathematical tools and procedures, and even some of the same theoretical statements. Scientists need only understand how to use these various elements in ways that others would accept. These elements of shared practice thus need not presuppose any comparable unity in scientists’ beliefs about what they are doing when they use them. Indeed, one role of a paradigm is to enable scientists to work successfully without having to provide a detailed account of what they are doing or what they believe about it. Thomas Kuhn noted that scientists “can agree in their identification of a paradigm without agreeing on, or even attempting to produce, a full interpretation or rationalization of it. Lack of a standard interpretation or of an agreed reduction to rules will not prevent a paradigm from guiding research.”\n\n==>Scientists use (A) without having to agree on a standard interpretation of or (B) to it.", "answer": 3, "e1": "(A)Deviation (B) Explanation", "e2": "(A)Models (B) Explanation", "e3": "(A)paradigms (B) rationalization", "e4": "(A)Deviation (B) Irrationality", "e5": "(A)Deviation (B) Illogicality"}
{"passageID": 230640, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Mobilities in transit offer a broad field to be explored by different disciplines in all faculties, in addition to the humanities. In spite of increasing acceleration, for example in travelling through geographical or virtual space, our body becomes more and more a passive non-moving container, which is transported by artefacts or loaded up with inner feelings of being mobile in the so-called information society. Technical mobilities turn human beings into some kind of terminal creatures, who spend most of their time at rest and who need to participate in sports in order to balance their daily disproportion of motion and rest. Have we come closer to Aristotle’s image of God as the immobile mover, when elites exercise their power to move money, things and people, while they themselves do not need to move at all? Others, at the bottom of this power, are victims of mobility-structured social exclusion. They cannot decide how and where to move, but are just moved around or locked out or even locked in without either the right to move or the right to stay.\n\n==>The increasing acceleration of (A) and the resulting passivity of human beings has created a power (B) world in which elites are able to move money, things, and people across boundaries, while those at the bottom are often excluded from the right to move or stay.", "answer": 1, "e1": "(A)mobility (B) imbalanced", "e2": "(A)Immobility (B) Equal", "e3": "(A)Immobility (B) Unbalanced", "e4": "(A)Agility (B) Unbalanced", "e5": "(A)Agility (B) Equal"}
{"passageID": 230920, "question_type": 8, "question": "다음 글의 내용을 요약하고자 한다. 빈칸 (A), (B)에 들어갈 말로 가장 적절한 것은?", "new_passage": "Becoming competent in another culture means looking beyond behavior to see if we can understand the attitudes, beliefs, and values that motivate what we observe. By looking only at the visible aspects of culture ― customs, clothing, food, and language ― we develop a short-sighted view of intercultural understanding ― just the tip of the iceberg, really. If we are to be successful in our business interactions with people who have different values and beliefs about how the world is ordered, then we must go below the surface of what it means to understand culture and attempt to see what Edward Hall calls the “hidden dimensions.” Those hidden aspects are the very foundation of culture and are the reason why culture is actually more than meets the eye. We tend not to notice those cultural norms until they violate what we consider to be common sense, good judgment, or the nature of things.\n\n==>To become competent in another (A) and be successful in our business interactions with people from it, we must look below the surface of what it means to understand culture to (B) its hidden dimensions.", "answer": 2, "e1": "(A)Ignorance (B) Investigate", "e2": "(A)culture (B) explore", "e3": "(A)Heritage (B) Conceal", "e4": "(A)Ignorance (B) Constrain", "e5": "(A)Ignorance (B) Conceal"}
